The other way that you can actually charge an object is through something called induction.
OK.
So let's start with the figure here at the top.
We have here is a kind of a metal sphere.
So I mean just write this down metal sphere and first of all it is a neutral.
So it has the same number of positives and negatives.
OK.
It's also not sitting on the ground here right.
This here is a piece of glass or something that is a not a conductor.
OK.
As long as this piece you that's supporting it is non conducting right we say it's kind of an insulator
So that means that whatever charges are here are kind of stuck on the sphere.
All right and Figure B what you do here imagine I bring my PDC Rod here that I've rubbed with the rabbit
pelt and it's negatively charged again.
Now it's kind of the same picture as the can.
Right.
Can we had those electrons that moved to the other side of the can is shown over here and the positive
ones are over here and that's fine.
So there is a little bit of an attractive force here between the rod and the metal sphere.
Well that's all fine and dandy.
Now this is not going to move because it's kind of stuck to the ground down here.
All right.
So now imagine we connected a wire as connected from the sphere and goes all the way to the ground and
we repeat the same experiment.
What that means is now the electrons instead of piling up here on the opposite side of the sphere.
We now give them a path to actually leave the surface of the sphere.
OK.
So they're actually leaving and going to the ground the ground can accept a lot of charges.
And then what we remove while we remove that we remove that wire OK.
We remove the wire and then if we remove the rod.
Well what happens.
So a couple of things.
So all those electrons that were on the other side of the sphere went through that wire and they ended
up on the ground.
So the ground becomes slightly negatively charged.
OK.
And you could see that down here.
And then once you remove the rod again what you're going to end up getting here is a positively charged
sphere at the end.
OK.
It becomes positively charged.
Now these pictures a little bit misleading these charges are not physically moving.
It's just the total charge of the object now will become because of the electron motion and they go
back to some equilibrium configuration at the end.
The object will become positively charged.
OK.
So at no point did the actual rod touch the sphere.
So that's really important.
Yeah.
And this is what is called charging by induction.
This is how we would obtain a positively charged object.
OK.
Remember it's only the electrons that can move.
That's really really important.
The positive charges do not move.